README.md, before:

Ansible Role: Java
==================

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/gantsign/ansible-role-java.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/gantsign/ansible-role-java)
[![Ansible Galaxy](https://img.shields.io/badge/ansible--galaxy-gantsign.java-blue.svg)](https://galaxy.ansible.com/gantsign/java)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg)](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/gantsign/ansible-role-java/master/LICENSE)

Role to install the [Oracle Java JDK](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/index.html).

Requirements
------------

* Ansible >= 2.0

* Linux Distribution

    * Debian Family

        * Debian

            * Wheezy (7)
            * Jessie (8)

        * Ubuntu

            * Trusty (14.04)
            * Wily (15.10)
            * Xenial (16.04)

    * RedHat Family

        * CentOS

            * 6
            * 7

        * Fedora

            * 25

    * SUSE Family

        * OpenSUSE

            * 42.2

    * Note: other versions are likely to work but have not been tested.

Role Variables
--------------

The following variables will change the behavior of this role (default values
are shown below):

```yaml
# Java version number
java_version: '8u121'

# Base installation directory for any Java distribution
java_install_dir: '/opt/java'

# The root folder of this Java installation
java_home: '{{ java_install_dir }}/jdk{{ java_version }}'

# Directory to store files downloaded for Java installation
java_download_dir: "{{ x_ansible_download_dir | default(ansible_env.HOME + '/.ansible/tmp/downloads') }}"

# If this is the default installation, profile scripts will be written to set
# the JAVA_HOME environment variable and add it to the PATH environment
# variable.
java_is_default_installation: yes

# Timeout for JDK download response in seconds
java_jdk_download_timeout_seconds: 600

# Timeout for JDK download response in seconds
java_jce_download_timeout_seconds: 30
```

### Oracle Binary Code License Agreement

To use this role you must accept the "Oracle Binary Code License Agreement
for the Java SE Platform Products and JavaFX"; you can do this by specifying
the following role variable:

```yaml
java_license_declaration: 'I accept the "Oracle Binary Code License Agreement for the Java SE Platform Products and JavaFX" under the terms at http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/terms/license/index.html'
```

If you don't want to embed the declaration in your playbook it can be passed
by adding the following argument when running `ansible-playbook`:

```
--extra-vars '{"java_license_declaration": "I accept the \"Oracle Binary Code License Agreement for the Java SE Platform Products and JavaFX\" under the terms at http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/terms/license/index.html"}'
```

### Supported Java Versions

The following versions of Java are supported without any additional
configuration (for other versions follow the Advanced Configuration
instructions):

* 8u121
* 8u112
* 8u111
* 8u102
* 8u101
* 7u80
* 7u79

Advanced Configuration
----------------------

The following role variables are dependent on the Java version; to use a
Java version **not pre-configured by this role** you must configure the
variables below.

### Minor Version Configuration

The below has to be configured for every minor release of Java.

```yaml
# SHA256 sum for the redistributable JDK package (i.e. jdk-{{ java_version }}-linux-x64.tar.gz)
java_redis_sha256sum: '7cfbe0bc0391a4abe60b3e9eb2a541d2315b99b9cb3a24980e618a89229e04b7'

# The build number for this JDK version
java_version_build: 14

# ID in JDK download URL (introduced in 8u121)
java_jdk_download_id: ''
```

### Major Version Configuration

The below only has to be configured for a new major release of Java.

**Warning:** this role is incompatible with Java 6 and earlier due to the
different way the JDK was packaged for those releases.

```yaml
# SHA256 sum for the redistributable JCE Policy Files (i.e. jce_policy-8.zip)
java_jce_redis_sha256sum: 'f3020a3922efd6626c2fff45695d527f34a8020e938a49292561f18ad1320b59'

# Directory on remote mirror where JCE redistributable can be found
java_jce_redis_mirror: '{{ java_mirror_base }}/jce/8'

# The JCE redistributable file name
java_jce_redis_filename: 'jce_policy-8.zip'

# The root folder name inside the JCE redistributable
java_jce_redis_folder: 'UnlimitedJCEPolicyJDK8'
```

Example Playbook
----------------

```yaml
- hosts: servers
  roles:
    - role: gantsign.java
```

Role Facts
----------

This role exports the following Ansible facts for use by other roles:

* `ansible_local.java.general.version`

    * e.g. `1.8.0_102`

* `ansible_local.java.general.home`

    * e.g. `/opt/java/jdk1.8.0_102`

More Roles From GantSign
------------------------

You can find more roles from GantSign on
[Ansible Galaxy](https://galaxy.ansible.com/gantsign).

Development & Testing
---------------------

This project uses [Molecule](http://molecule.readthedocs.io/) to aid in the
development and testing; the role is unit tested using
[Testinfra](http://testinfra.readthedocs.io/) and
[pytest](http://docs.pytest.org/).

To develop or test you'll need to have installed the following:

* Linux (e.g. [Ubuntu](http://www.ubuntu.com/))
* [Docker](https://www.docker.com/)
* [Python](https://www.python.org/) (including python-pip)
* [Ansible](https://www.ansible.com/)
* [Molecule](http://molecule.readthedocs.io/)

To run the role (i.e. the `tests/test.yml` playbook), and test the results
(`tests/test_role.py`), execute the following command from the project root
(i.e. the directory with `molecule.yml` in it):

```bash
molecule test
```

License
-------

MIT

Author Information
------------------

John Freeman

GantSign Ltd.
Company No. 06109112 (registered in England)

Commit message:

Added example playbook with explicit version
I expect it is relatively common to need to specify the version explicitly.

README.md, after:

Ansible Role: Java
==================

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/gantsign/ansible-role-java.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/gantsign/ansible-role-java)
[![Ansible Galaxy](https://img.shields.io/badge/ansible--galaxy-gantsign.java-blue.svg)](https://galaxy.ansible.com/gantsign/java)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg)](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/gantsign/ansible-role-java/master/LICENSE)

Role to install the [Oracle Java JDK](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/index.html).

Requirements
------------

* Ansible >= 2.0

* Linux Distribution

    * Debian Family

        * Debian

            * Wheezy (7)
            * Jessie (8)

        * Ubuntu

            * Trusty (14.04)
            * Wily (15.10)
            * Xenial (16.04)

    * RedHat Family

        * CentOS

            * 6
            * 7

        * Fedora

            * 25

    * SUSE Family

        * OpenSUSE

            * 42.2

    * Note: other versions are likely to work but have not been tested.

Role Variables
--------------

The following variables will change the behavior of this role (default values
are shown below):

```yaml
# Java version number
java_version: '8u121'

# Base installation directory for any Java distribution
java_install_dir: '/opt/java'

# The root folder of this Java installation
java_home: '{{ java_install_dir }}/jdk{{ java_version }}'

# Directory to store files downloaded for Java installation
java_download_dir: "{{ x_ansible_download_dir | default(ansible_env.HOME + '/.ansible/tmp/downloads') }}"

# If this is the default installation, profile scripts will be written to set
# the JAVA_HOME environment variable and add it to the PATH environment
# variable.
java_is_default_installation: yes

# Timeout for JDK download response in seconds
java_jdk_download_timeout_seconds: 600

# Timeout for JDK download response in seconds
java_jce_download_timeout_seconds: 30
```

### Oracle Binary Code License Agreement

To use this role you must accept the "Oracle Binary Code License Agreement
for the Java SE Platform Products and JavaFX"; you can do this by specifying
the following role variable:

```yaml
java_license_declaration: 'I accept the "Oracle Binary Code License Agreement for the Java SE Platform Products and JavaFX" under the terms at http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/terms/license/index.html'
```

If you don't want to embed the declaration in your playbook it can be passed
by adding the following argument when running `ansible-playbook`:

```
--extra-vars '{"java_license_declaration": "I accept the \"Oracle Binary Code License Agreement for the Java SE Platform Products and JavaFX\" under the terms at http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/terms/license/index.html"}'
```

### Supported Java Versions

The following versions of Java are supported without any additional
configuration (for other versions follow the Advanced Configuration
instructions):

* 8u121
* 8u112
* 8u111
* 8u102
* 8u101
* 7u80
* 7u79

Advanced Configuration
----------------------

The following role variables are dependent on the Java version; to use a
Java version **not pre-configured by this role** you must configure the
variables below.

### Minor Version Configuration

The below has to be configured for every minor release of Java.

```yaml
# SHA256 sum for the redistributable JDK package (i.e. jdk-{{ java_version }}-linux-x64.tar.gz)
java_redis_sha256sum: '7cfbe0bc0391a4abe60b3e9eb2a541d2315b99b9cb3a24980e618a89229e04b7'

# The build number for this JDK version
java_version_build: 14

# ID in JDK download URL (introduced in 8u121)
java_jdk_download_id: ''
```

### Major Version Configuration

The below only has to be configured for a new major release of Java.

**Warning:** this role is incompatible with Java 6 and earlier due to the
different way the JDK was packaged for those releases.

```yaml
# SHA256 sum for the redistributable JCE Policy Files (i.e. jce_policy-8.zip)
java_jce_redis_sha256sum: 'f3020a3922efd6626c2fff45695d527f34a8020e938a49292561f18ad1320b59'

# Directory on remote mirror where JCE redistributable can be found
java_jce_redis_mirror: '{{ java_mirror_base }}/jce/8'

# The JCE redistributable file name
java_jce_redis_filename: 'jce_policy-8.zip'

# The root folder name inside the JCE redistributable
java_jce_redis_folder: 'UnlimitedJCEPolicyJDK8'
```

Example Playbooks
-----------------

By default this role will install the latest version of the Oracle JDK supported
by this role:

```yaml
- hosts: servers
  roles:
    - role: gantsign.java
```

You can install a specific version of the Oracle JDK by specifying the
`java_version` (note: if the version is not currently supported by this role
then additional configuration will be required - see
[Advanced Configuration](#advanced-configuration)):

```yaml
- hosts: servers
  roles:
    - role: gantsign.java
      java_version: '8u121'
```

Role Facts
----------

This role exports the following Ansible facts for use by other roles:

* `ansible_local.java.general.version`

    * e.g. `1.8.0_102`

* `ansible_local.java.general.home`

    * e.g. `/opt/java/jdk1.8.0_102`

More Roles From GantSign
------------------------

You can find more roles from GantSign on
[Ansible Galaxy](https://galaxy.ansible.com/gantsign).

Development & Testing
---------------------

This project uses [Molecule](http://molecule.readthedocs.io/) to aid in the
development and testing; the role is unit tested using
[Testinfra](http://testinfra.readthedocs.io/) and
[pytest](http://docs.pytest.org/).

To develop or test you'll need to have installed the following:

* Linux (e.g. [Ubuntu](http://www.ubuntu.com/))
* [Docker](https://www.docker.com/)
* [Python](https://www.python.org/) (including python-pip)
* [Ansible](https://www.ansible.com/)
* [Molecule](http://molecule.readthedocs.io/)

To run the role (i.e. the `tests/test.yml` playbook), and test the results
(`tests/test_role.py`), execute the following command from the project root
(i.e. the directory with `molecule.yml` in it):

```bash
molecule test
```

License
-------

MIT

Author Information
------------------

John Freeman

GantSign Ltd.
Company No. 06109112 (registered in England)
